#This week we read articles from James Baker. He discusses his work on his book especially pertaining to the research done on the satire artist Isaac Cruikshank. Baker created a graph displaying the geographical locations or 'sets' that were used in Cruikshank's comics and placed them in Gephy to translate how that would correlate to the appeal to the publishers and ultimatley the audience of these satire comics. He chose to ommit these graphs from his book and was later questioned as to why that was in a lecture he was presenting. He goes on to talk about the fact that he did not feel tese graphs were necessary to convey the conclusions he gathered from these graphs as they were conslusive to te same ideas he had formed on his own and that he chose to put this information into a visual representation for the simple fact that he wanted to see it laid out in front of him. Had he not adressed this however, it could have made his book seem suspicious and some may have questioned th validity of the conclusions he had made. This is a great exampl of historians having to keep track of their work and making notes and saving things as it shows how much people will read into things that the historian may not find important. 
#This has made me think about the small decisions I make when recording digital hstory not only on the technical side but also in the way that my digital footprint can alter data and change the way my findings are percieved. It can also make things difficult for me personally when leaving and coming back to research. For example had Bake deleted the graphic when he was finished with it he would have never been able to prove that his information was valid. It would have also stripped him of the oppourtunity to use this instance as a teaching moment for many young historians who may be in his shoes. Thankfully his situation was all cleared up and didn't lead to anything more than a discussion however if this were a topic of more magnitiude I can only imagine what could have gone wrong had he made a wrong turn somewhere.
#As I think about cleaning up data to import it into something like the graphs we created it downed on me how much power we as historians actually have. 1 date changed the wrong way or 1 name altered or not altered can drastically change results of data. Even something as small as the misplacment of a comma can destroy or throw off possibly years of work. 1 click of a button can really chage everything. As I was working through the modules this week, everytime I came to a new accept, or go button I was crossing my fingers and hoping it wouldn't lead to something I couldn't fix. Thankfully I had no large mishaps and overall I enjoyed this weeks work, especially when it came to broadening my mindset as to how much impact we as digital historians can have on the processing and displaying of hhistorical data.
#From that point I can see that the value of historians showing their work in comparison to digital historians is a very different situation. On both sides this can allow people to not only trace their own work but can allow others to verify or follow their findnigs as well. In the case of 'regular' historians, it is may be less important as they do not really have the ability to change the information they are presenting, having to use hard evidence such as lists and historical documents to back up their findings although that is and does not go without trying. With Digital historians as we have seen this week, 1 simple click of a button changes the way the findings seem. For example, in our scatter-graph using Gephy we chose to exclude the ouliers on the outer rim of the graph that represented the correspondance between those who were not otherwise connected. Now in our findings this change was harmless and only got rid of information that was not pertinent to the information we were trying to find, however in a different situation this tactict could be used to discredit someone or allow a digital historian the option to apply thier own biases that they find to be true. Now obviously those who are credible would not chose to do such a thing however without the proper documentation of how they came to their finings something like that could and proably would go unnoticed. 
#The scholarly value of showing your work ties in to what I have said above. If historians are not to show their work it can lead to either scewed results or the discredation of said work. Take grade 9 math homework for example. Yes, you may get the correct answer but if you not show your work, you don't get full marks. This is because showing your work shows the innate understanding of the subject, whether it be biased or not. Now obviously it is hard to show bias in math homework but in history it is very easy to omit or exaserbate certain data to support or refute certain biases and as we can see historians were doing it long before computers existed. If tracking your work is not second hand nature to digital historians it can open a bunch of doors in which their integrity is questioned as it was in the readings about James Baker. 
